README.md, before:

[ WARNING ] This is a small project that I've created to try some libraries and "stuff", for study purposes, don't use in production without review and configure all properly. 

Why chainsaw? Nothing special, was a github suggestion. =)

Here you'll find:

* Spring-boot application with spring-cloud-config-client, actuator, google jib (docker img creator), oauth2 client.
* Quarkus application (need improvements)
* Spring cloud config server.
* Helm chart for the applications
* Keycloak installed with helm charts

What I'm planning to add

* Add Prometheus for monitoring
* GraphQL as Backend For Frontend (BFF)
* ArchUnit to keep architecture consistent
* Migrate to Helm 3
* Support for openshift
* Keycloak cluster
* Upgrade to OpenJDK 11

Follow the recipe and should work, otherwise drop an issue:

* openJDK 8
* Maven
* VirtualBox

* Minikube

   motivation: basic kubernetes env. to run applications locally

  installation: 
  https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-minikube/

  ```  
  # start a new kubernetes cluster with minikube
  minikube start --cpus 2 --memory 8192

  # first steps
  kubectl config use minikube

  # config to use internal docker environment
  eval $(minikube docker-env)

  ```

* Helm charts V3+:

   motivation: easy to deploy containers and stateful services into kubernetes and also have a good catalog of ready-to-use charts and configurations.

   installation:
   https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/


* Keycloak (auth server)

   motivation: provides a great management interface, openID support and it has a great development and support community

   ```
   # configure external repository
   helm repo add codecentric https://codecentric.github.io/helm-charts

   # execute installation on minikube
   helm install keycloak --set keycloak.password=admin,keycloak.username=admin codecentric/keycloak
   ```

   Run after keycloak is up and running

   ```
   # observe and wait until keycloak is up
   kubectl get pods -w

   # expose keycloak throught a node port
   kubectl expose pod keycloak-0 --name=keycloak --type=NodePort

   # check IP:PORT to access the admin console
   minikube service keycloak --url
   ```

   IMPORTANT:

   There's some step to configure on keycloak:

   1. From the "Realm Setting" > "Keys" click on the public key button and copy the public key to be used on the chainsaw-config-server
      as is configured on this Github repo: https://github.com/brunojensen/chainsaw-kube-config
   2. Create a new client called "bank-platform" with "Client Protocol"="openid connect".


   > Optionally, we could also install keycloak-gatekeeper to work as a side-car to app pod and provide authentication out-of-shelf


* Service discovery comes off-the-shelf with kubernetes

   motivation: kubernetes provides a way to identify services and balance the request between the multiple instances of the application.

* Monitoring with spring actuator and kubernetes liveness/readness probe

   motivation: as a quick solution to monitor the health of the application and configure the environment to restore in case of failure

* Spring-boot Services

   motivation: spring-boot provides an easy-to-go template generation for microservices. One good alternative was to use the quarkus project, but I didn't want to go that far and the requirements of this code challenge is to use spring. But to create the docker image I decide to use a google container tool called jib.

   ```
   # pre-defined bash script to run maven and helm to package and install the application on the local environment
   chmod +x app.sh && ./app.sh install

   ```
* Postgres operator 

  how to install via helm

  ```
  helm install postgres-operator ./charts/postgres-operator
  ```
  
  how to create a postgres instance

  ```
  kubectl create -f k8s-config/postgres-manifest/minimal-postgres-manifest.yaml
  ```
  
  Obs.: change to the service type to NodePort

  how to get host/port/user/password

  ```
  export HOST_PORT=$(minikube service acid-minimal-cluster --url | sed 's,.*/,,')
  export PGHOST=$(echo $HOST_PORT | cut -d: -f 1)
  export PGPORT=$(echo $HOST_PORT | cut -d: -f 2)
  export PGPASSWORD=$(kubectl get secret postgres.acid-minimal-cluster.credentials -o 'jsonpath={.data.password}' | base64 -d)'

  ```


* Application evaluation

   ```
   # requires "jq" -> https://stedolan.github.io/jq/download/
   # use this script to run tests on the APIs.
   ./app.sh

   ```

* kubectl tips:

   https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/overview/

Commit message:

Change to keycloak operator, fix #17

README.md, after:

[ WARNING ] This is a small project that I've created to try some libraries and "stuff", for study purposes, don't use in production without review and configure all properly. 

Why chainsaw? Nothing special, was a github suggestion. =)

Here you'll find:

* Spring-boot application with spring-cloud-config-client, actuator, google jib (docker img creator), oauth2 client.
* Quarkus application (need improvements)
* Spring cloud config server.
* Helm chart for the applications
* Keycloak installed with helm charts

What I'm planning to add

* Add Prometheus for monitoring
* GraphQL as Backend For Frontend (BFF)
* ArchUnit to keep architecture consistent
* Migrate to Helm 3
* Support for openshift
* Keycloak cluster
* Upgrade to OpenJDK 11

Follow the recipe and should work, otherwise drop an issue:

* openJDK 8
* Maven
* VirtualBox

* Minikube / Kind

   motivation: basic kubernetes env. to run applications locally

  Minikube installation: 
  https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-minikube/

  Kind installation:
  https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/
  
  ** Additional steps for Minikube:
  ```  
  # start a new kubernetes cluster with minikube
  minikube start --cpus 2 --memory 8192

  # first steps
  kubectl config use minikube

  # config to use internal docker environment
  eval $(minikube docker-env)

  ```

* Helm charts V3+:

   motivation: easy to deploy containers and stateful services into kubernetes and also have a good catalog of ready-to-use charts and configurations.

   installation:
   https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/


* Keycloak operator

   motivation: provides a great management interface, openID support and it has a great development and support community

   
   1. Install Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM), a tool to help manage the Operators running on your cluster.
   ```
   $ curl -sL https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-lifecycle-manager/releases/download/0.14.1/install.sh | bash -s 0.13.0
   ```
   2. Install the operator by running the following command:What happens when I execute this command?
   ```
   $ kubectl create -f https://operatorhub.io/install/keycloak-operator.yaml
   ```

   3. This Operator will be installed in the "my-keycloak-operator" namespace and will be usable from this namespace only.

   After install, watch your operator come up using next command.
   ```
   $ kubectl get csv -n my-keycloak-operator
   ```

   4. Create a Keycloak instance:
   
   ** You can download and customize the keycloak.yaml as you need.
   ```
   kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/keycloak/keycloak-operator/master/deploy/examples/keycloak/keycloak.yaml
   ```

   To use it, checkout the custom resource definitions (CRDs) introduced by this operator to start using it.

   IMPORTANT:

   There's some step to configure on keycloak:

   1. From the "Realm Setting" > "Keys" click on the public key button and copy the public key to be used on the chainsaw-config-server
      as is configured on this Github repo: https://github.com/brunojensen/chainsaw-kube-config
   2. Create a new client called "bank-platform" with "Client Protocol"="openid connect".


   > Optionally, we could also install keycloak-gatekeeper to work as a side-car to app pod and provide authentication out-of-shelf


* Service discovery comes off-the-shelf with kubernetes

   motivation: kubernetes provides a way to identify services and balance the request between the multiple instances of the application.

* Monitoring with spring actuator and kubernetes liveness/readness probe

   motivation: as a quick solution to monitor the health of the application and configure the environment to restore in case of failure

* Spring-boot Services

   motivation: spring-boot provides an easy-to-go template generation for microservices. One good alternative was to use the quarkus project, but I didn't want to go that far and the requirements of this code challenge is to use spring. But to create the docker image I decide to use a google container tool called jib.

   ```
   # pre-defined bash script to run maven and helm to package and install the application on the local environment
   chmod +x app.sh && ./app.sh install

   ```
* Postgres operator 

  how to install via helm

  ```
  helm install postgres-operator ./charts/postgres-operator
  ```
  
  how to create a postgres instance

  ```
  kubectl create -f k8s-config/postgres-manifest/minimal-postgres-manifest.yaml
  ```
  
  Obs.: change to the service type to NodePort

  how to get host/port/user/password

  ```
  export HOST_PORT=$(minikube service acid-minimal-cluster --url | sed 's,.*/,,')
  export PGHOST=$(echo $HOST_PORT | cut -d: -f 1)
  export PGPORT=$(echo $HOST_PORT | cut -d: -f 2)
  export PGPASSWORD=$(kubectl get secret postgres.acid-minimal-cluster.credentials -o 'jsonpath={.data.password}' | base64 -d)'

  ```


* Application evaluation

   ```
   # requires "jq" -> https://stedolan.github.io/jq/download/
   # use this script to run tests on the APIs.
   ./app.sh

   ```

* kubectl tips:

   https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/overview/
